---
title: Xu's 2011 ChIP-seq data, my analysis
author: Bin He
date: 25 aout 2016
---

Data
----

Downloaded from NCBI/SRA


Goal
----

Process Xu's data for reanalysis, MochiView visualization

Notes
-----

## 25 aout 2016 ##

### Calculate average coverage from WIG files

_Goal_

Normalize the WIG files by average coverage per position, so as to visualize in MochiView

_Notes_

1. use Kent/wigToBigWig to convert WIG to BigWig. Need the S.cerevisiae.genome, and need to convert chromosome name format (I, II, III -> 1,2,3)

2. use Kent/bigWigInfo to extract summary information 

3. Use 1 / [mean coverage] as the multiplier when loading into MochiView. Results are good.

## 26 aout 2016 ##

### Process Xu's Mol Cel mmc2 table

_Goal_

Use Xu's summarized table to answer a number of questions concerning the interrelationship between Pho4 and Pho2 binding

#### Understanding what each column in the table means, i.e. how is it calculated

* Occupancy

> Mapped reads were converted to coverage per site. Data from multiple samples were normalized. After normalization, a 20-bp window centered on every CACGTG motif was used to calculate the mean $Occupancy_{ChIP}$ in the ChIP sample. In the corresponding input sample, a 150-bp window centered on the same motif was used to calculate the mean $Occupancy_{input}$.  One question I had is whether the normalization was done simultaneously on all samples or in paired ChIP and input sample. If the latter, the problem arises as not all ChIP samples have the matching input sample.  Alternatively, one could use a single input sample for all ChIP samples. But I doubt this is what Xu has done

* Enrichment

> Means occupancy in ChIP sample over occupancy in input.  e.g. $Pho4 enrichment in no Pi = Occupancy_{ChIP} / Occupancy_{input}$

* Recruitment

> Difference in binding by Pho4/2 in high vs no Pi conditions. Binding is measured by _enrichment_ as described above. 

## 28 aout 2016 ##

_Goal_

I want to compare Pho4 enrichment/occupancy in no Pi condition with or w/o Pho2. However, it seems that for the latter (w/o Pho2), the values reported in mmc2 is not properly normalized. So the goal of this analysis is to obtain my own normalized values for the two measures.

_Procedure_

1. I already did the normalization on the WIG files as described in 25 aout 2016 notes.

2. In MochiView, I created a location set based on perfect matches to the "CACGTG" motif in the whole genome.

3. To be somewhat consistent with Xu's methods, I exported the locations of that motif match dataset, and wrote a script (Extend.R) to make the width of each region 20bp centered on the motif. 

4. I then reimported the location set into MochiView and mapped onto it tiled data for Pho4 occupancy in no Pi (ChIP) w/ or w/o Pho2. Instead of using mean value as Xu did, I used 90%. Shouldn't make any difference.

5. I exported this location/dataset into a text file. The goal is to integrate this data with Xu's mmc2

6. I realized that while my locations are based on Sac03, Xu's is not. Later I figured that his locations are Sac01. I therefore converted my locations to Sac01, using the lifeOver tool implemented in Galaxy. Some format conversions turned out to be necessary, but are easily achieved using some combination of vim and shell script.

7. To map my data onto Xu's, I first constructed GenomicRanges object from the two datasets, respectively. Now that the coordinate systems are the same, I can simply use `findOverlaps` function with `type = "within"` to find the mapping. This resulted in a 1-to-1 mapping from Xu's location sets onto mine (Xu's as query, so that I can find the corresponding rows in my data), with just two of his locations missing in mine. 

_Results_

1. With the newly added columns, I can show that the difference in Pho4 occupancy in no Pi w/ vs w/o Pho2 is greater when Pho2 enrichment at that site is strong. This is not surprising at all, as one would naively expect Pho2 to play a stronger role in enhancing Pho4 binding if it binds strongly itself.

2. The results suggest that for _S. cerevisiae_, Pho4 and Pho2 enhance each other's binding, and that only when both factors are strongly recruited will the binding actually result in function, i.e. recruitment of RNAP.

3. So what is the determinant of Pho4 and Pho2 binding? For Pho4, Xu's paper suggested the following factors, roughly in order of their importance: 
	
	a. chromatin openess, or conversely nucleosome freeness;

	b. presence of one or multiple E-box motifs

	c. lack of Cbf1 competitive binding

	d. presence of Pho2 binding at an optimum distance of about ~15 bp

4. How about Pho2? I know so far that 

	a. Not all Pho2 binding sites are shared with those of Pho4

	b. At those sites shared with Pho4, enrichment of Pho2 is directly correlated with the enrichment of Pho4, and when Pho4 is not present in the nucleus, Pho2 enrichment is significantly lower.

	c. What I want to find out next is whether Pho2 has a specific sequence motif, and how strong that may determine Pho2 binding.

5. The final question to address is how is ScerPho2 binding strength and locations different when the endogenous Pho4 is replaced with CglaPho4. Here are two possible scenarios:

	a. ScerPho2 is less capable of interacting with CglaPho4 than with ScerPho4, hence it binds more weakly and to less locations compared with the pattern with ScerPho4

	b. ScerPho2 can interact with CglaPho4 perfectly well and because the latter binds to more locations with more strength, this may increase the binding of Pho2 and expand its target set.

		Note that the first hypothesis would further implicate that the expansion of Pho4 binding has nothing to do with Pho2's help.


