---
title: Theory for determining Kd in MITOMI
author: Bin He
date: 12 jan 2019
---

## Useful reference
- Maerkl and Quake 2007
- Rockel et al 2012
- Unknown book chapter, titled "Theory, Characterization, and Modeling of DNA Binding by Regulatory Transcription Factors", by CSHL Press
- Prism GraphPad manual on [one site specific binding model](https://www.graphpad.com/guides/prism/7/curve-fitting/index.htm?reg_one_site_fit_total_and_ns.htm)
- [gDoc notes from 2009-11](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1tnUJvI_6JnAsMvmt5m8GyFqSfKWE_FvCLXm0ciXw0vA/edit?usp=sharing)
- [Notes]() of my own derivation

## Basics
P + S = PS 
where P is transcription factor protein, S is DNA site, PS refers to protein-DNA complex

$K_d = \frac{[P][S]}{[PS]}$

To determine $K_d$, and because it is not trivial to distinguish and separately measure [P], [S] and [PS], we can do some algebra and rewrite the above equation as

$\frac{[PS]}{[P]+[PS]}=\frac{[S]}{K_d+[S]}$

Now we can set out to determine $K_d$ by varying [S] and measuring the left hand quantity, which is fractional occupancy. After that, we can use non-linear regression to determine $K_d$. 

    Note that [P] and [S] refer to free protein and free DNA when the reaction reaches equilibrium. However, we usually only measure (or know) the total concentration. This will be discussed in more details below.

## What is measured in MITOMI
1. Total DNA (before wash)

    $A=C_{S}[S]_{total}$, where $C_S$ is the scaling factor that translates DNA concentration to Cy5 fluorescence levels detected.

1. Bound DNA (after wash)

    $B=C_{S}[PS]$, $C_S$ is as above. Note that this is measured under the button area, and thus only looking at those DNA bound by the "trapped" proteins

1. Total protein bound to the surface

    $C=C_{P}([P]+[PS])$, where $C_P$ is the equivalent of $C_S$ for protein, but typically takes a different value as protein and DNA are labeled with different fluorophores. Also, think of this as a "sample" of the molecules in solution, by first "trapping" the proteins on the patch of surface beneath the button membrane, then use the closing of the membrane to "push out" unbound DNA, leaving only DNA that are bound to the "trapped" proteins. This way, we are properly looking at the fractional occupancy.

Notice that using what are actually measured, we get

$y = \frac{C}{B} = \frac{C_{S}[PS]}{C_{P}([P]+[PS])} = \frac{C_S}{C_P} \frac{[PS]}{[P]+[PS]} = \frac{C_S}{C_P} \frac{[S]}{K_d+[S]}$

Let $B_{max} = \frac{C_S}{C_P}$, we get $y = B_{max}\frac{[S]}{K_d+[S}$.

Now the problem is, what we measured is A, which is $[S]_{total} = [S] + [PS]$, and yet, in the analyses, $[S]_{total}$ is used to approximate [S]. This requires $\frac{[PS]}{[S]+[PS}$ to be very small. So is it? Since $\frac{[S]}{[S]+[PS]} = \frac{[P]}{K_d+[P]}$, as long as $[P] \ll K_d$, the above approximation is valid. $K_d$ depends on the DNA sequence, and it's the smallest for the consensus site. If the concentration of the protein is indeed smaller than that, then we should be fine (meaning most of the DNA in the solution are not bound by the protein). For weak binding sites, $K_d$ will be even larger, and the concern for the bound DNA being a significant portion of the total DNA is even less worrisome.

That being said, in practice the measured data does seem to show sigmoidal shape.
