---
title: Validate putative CgPho4 targets by promoter bashing
owner: Bin He, Jia Zhao
start: 2018-05-01
---

The goal of E029 is to validate putative CgPho4 targets identified in He et al 2017. In that study, the authors combined CgPho4 binding with Pho4-dependent gene induction to identify putative _direct_ targets of the TF. While the combination of the two types of data is stronger evidence than the traditional RNA-seq only approach, there is still the distinct possibility that some of the putative targets are not directly regulated by CgPho4, either due to experimental artifacts or because an intermediate factor is involved (CgPho4 induces X, which induces the target). The rationale of this project is that by building promoter variants that have the known CgPho4 motifs deleted, we can determine if CgPho4 binding to its promoter is indeed required for its induction, hence enhancing the evidence for a direct regulatory relationship. This is important because results from this project will provide a solid basis for identifying genes for future functional studies to understand the physiological consequence of the expanded Pho4 target network in _C. glabrata_. A caveat of this approach is that under some circumstances, even if the gene is directly regulated by Pho4, we will get a negative result from this work, i.e. deleting the Pho4 motif(s) doesn't significantly affect the target gene expression. This can be caused by the gene being regulated by additional TFs that works in an OR gate logic with CgPho4. However, by examining the promoter activity in _pho80Δ_ background, which causes Pho4 to localize into the nucleus without actually starving the cells of phosphate, it is expected that the presumed additional TF won't be active and thus the result should directly speak to the requirement of CgPho4 for the activation of the gene.

The initial approach of this project is to use a dual luciferase reporter to measure the level of gene induction both for the wild type and the E-box motif deleted variant. Based on an existing plasmid (pTH727), we cloned the candidate gene promoter in front of the Firefly luciferase gene, while the plasmid contains an ADH1-promoted Renilla luciferase as an internal control.
